README.md, before:

# RNASeq3USP
transcriptome-wide  profiling 3'UTR splicing events using conventional RNA sequencing data 


## Overview
This repository contains the pipline for transcirptome wide 3'UTR splicing events identification from the aligned RNA-seq data (bam files). Output of splicing junctions from the alighment is also required and the current version only accepts the format from STAR output (*SJ.out.tab)    


## Quick running 
To run the pipline, 6 parameters are required in the correct order, including

1, directory, include all the bam files, *SJ.out.tab should be also in the same directory and the prefix of file name should be consistent with bam files

2, gtf, could be downloaded from Gencode https://www.gencodegenes.org

3, directory of output

4, read_length, read length of the RNAseq data 

5, strand of the RNAseq data, it should be the value from 0,1,2. 0: not strand specific, 1: sense strand and 2: antisense strand 

6, read_end should be either single_end/SE or paired_end/PE  

bash run.sh ${1} ${2} ${3} ${4} ${5} ${6}

## Output 
The intermediate processed data and the final output are inside the output dierectory 

The file 'combined.intron.filtered.utr3.bed' is the final filtered 3'UTR splicing events

Splicing levels of these events were stored in 'filtered.splicing.count.Rdata', which could be load in R for the following analysis ... 

## Prerequisites
The pipline has been test with fowlloing dependencies: 

- bash 
- bedtools 
- featureCounts 
- samtools 
- perl 
- R

The pipline is not guaranteed to work if different versions of the tools are used.

Commit message:

add more inf in README
add more informations in README

README.md, after:

# RNASeq3USP
transcriptome-wide  profiling 3'UTR splicing events using conventional RNA sequencing data 


## Overview
This repository contains the pipline for transcirptome wide 3'UTR splicing events identification from the aligned RNA-seq data (bam files). Output of splicing junctions from the alighment is also required and the current version only accepts the format from STAR output (*SJ.out.tab)    


## Quick running 
To run the pipline, 6 parameters are required in the correct order, including

1, directory, include all the bam files, *SJ.out.tab should be also in the same directory and the prefix of file name should be consistent with bam files

2, gtf, could be downloaded from Gencode https://www.gencodegenes.org

3, directory of output

4, read_length, read length of the RNAseq data 

5, strand of the RNAseq data, it should be the value from 0,1,2. 0: not strand specific, 1: sense strand and 2: antisense strand 

6, read_end should be either single_end/SE or paired_end/PE  

bash run.sh ${1} ${2} ${3} ${4} ${5} ${6}

## Output 
The intermediate processed data and the final output are inside the output dierectory 
	- final outputs including: combined.UTR3.splicing.introns.bed and filtered.UTR3.splicing.events.tsv, could be found in the subdirectory "out"
		- combined.UTR3.splicing.introns.bed, a bed format file of the detcted introns within 3'UTR
		- filtered.UTR3.splicing.events.tsv, 3'UTR splicing events supported by at least two junctions supporting the events 
	- the detected introns are listed in subdirectory "intron"
	- counting of RNA-seq reads covering exon-intron bundary could be found in the sudirectory "count"
	- the intermediate processed data are stored in the subdirectory "processed_data"
	- log files are named as "*.log" and "*.elog"  

Please check the column informations of filtered.UTR3.splicing.events.tsv are shown below
1: 3'UTR splicing events ID, named by genomic coordinates of introns
2: Gene symbol of the events located 
3: Types of the transcirpts where the 3'UTR splicing events come from 
columns named as SplicingLevel:* indicate the splicing level of each event in each sample
columns named as SplicingCount:* indicate the number of junctions reads supporting the splicing events in each samples    

## Prerequisites
The pipline has been test with fowlloing dependencies: 

- bash 
- bedtools 
- featureCounts 
- samtools 
- perl 
- R

The pipline is not guaranteed to work if different versions of the tools are used.
